---
title: 'B-end product manager, we need to take these points into consideration when making demand'
date: 2020-08-17
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

Since I have been a product manager of mobile end (C-end) for two years and a product manager of system terminal(B-end) for three years, I will often be asked about the difference between being a product manager of B end and C end, especially among those who just graduated or just entered the industry.

Personally, the product thinking of the B end and the C end is actually common to some extent. They both start from the user's pain point and aim to solve the problem.

The biggest difference is that the C-end users are relatively emotional, and the products pay more attention to the ultimate user experience. The B-end is relatively rational, with more emphasis on how to efficiently serve the enterprise around the business scenarios and mechanisms.

As a B-end product manager, in addition to learning the c-end product thinking method, he also needs to constantly summarize from practice to form a system, which is convenient for adapting to different business environments.

Through several years of work experience, I share some points that should be considered when raising the demand for B-end products, which can guarantee higher quality demand and more efficient communication.

1. consider the system boundary

There may be hundreds of internal systems, each performing its own role. B end product manager, must be familiar with the system architecture, understand the functions and scope of each system, help to quickly output solutions, requirements to the right affiliates.

For example, during the function review, the developers may shift responsibility to each other and refuse to accept the demand because the system should not undertake this business. If you do not know the functional boundary of each system, it is difficult to make a quick decision, thus affecting the demand schedule. In a few cases, of course, you can turn to the system architect.

2. consider the carrying capacity of the system

One of the most important aspects of development when creating requirements is the amount of data or interface calls. Product managers are often asked to estimate the volume of business, such as the peak number of users participating in an activity, to assess the system's load-bearing capacity when concurrency occurs, and to consider better technical solutions if it cannot. This is one of the reasons why the B-side product manager requires sufficient data sensitivity.

3. Consider the flexibility and extensibility of functionality

As with the C end, the configuration items of the function must not be written dead, in case of an emergency cannot be quickly released version changes. Special attention should be paid to the planning of the following three functions:

Background page configuration items (text, pictures, links, etc.), support expansion;
Data interface, data storage form, reserved fields;
Configure switches when multiple sets of rules are used in parallel in the same scenario.
4. Consider extremes and anomalies

If you do not think clearly in the early stage, you will be asked to solve various problems in the subsequent requirements review, development and even testing process, which will greatly increase the communication cost.

For example, is there a general rule set when none of the personalization rules are effective? When the amount of data exceeds a certain threshold, whether an early warning mechanism is needed; Whether to set up data cache when the related party system is abnormal; Whether there is a function to support quick recovery when operational errors cause production problems, etc.

5. Consider the basics

Why do you think that? For example, make a financial product, because did not receive the risk control system, after the distribution of equity wool, resulting in huge losses; The function cannot be used directly after being put on line because it has not been checked; Information between departments is leaked due to the failure to consider the data permission.

In all three cases, risk control, permissions, and auditing are essential features in most scenarios, and are particularly prone to being ignored because they are too common, or because product managers take it for granted that development will be done directly and fail to specify the functionality separately in the requirements.

Therefore, it is recommended that the basic functions in the requirements document may not be described in detail, but must be mentioned, even if only a sentence.

6. Consider the production problem handling mechanism

Production problems can not be avoided, the pot is the second, the first action should be timely stop and repair. The establishment of a set of perfect production problem handling mechanism can manage product quality and improve work efficiency.

For example, when there is a major problem, the low-priority needs can be withdrawn and the manpower can be released to solve the problem. Glitches, then the product decision, whether to include in the next version of the optimization requirements.

Some teams, in order not to affect the development schedule of the scheduled requirements, will assign someone to deal with the production problems, but the production problem handlers will spend a lot of time familiarizing themselves with all the functional logic, and so on.

In short, when there is a problem, the specific process to deal with, is the product manager should be familiar with.

All of the above are rules of thumb, others will be sent out, please subscribe. If not, please correct, thank you.