---
title: 'Struts working mechanism? Why use Struts?'
date: 2020-04-19
permalink: /posts/2013/08/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This is a sample blog post. Lorem ipsum I can't remember the rest of lorem ipsum and don't have an internet connection right now. Testing testing testing this blog post. Blog posts are cool.

Working mechanism:
======

Struts workflow:
======

n web application startup initialization will load the ActionServlet, the ActionServlet from struts _config.xml. Reading configuration information in an XML file, and store them to various configuration object, when the ActionServlet receives a client request, will perform the following process.

(1) retrieve the ActionMapping instance matching the user's request, and return invalid information of the request path if it does not exist;

(2) if the ActionForm instance does not exist, create an ActionForm object to save the form data submitted by the customer into the ActionForm object;

(3) determine whether form validation is required based on the configuration information.

(4) if actionforms validate () method returns a null or return a does not contain ActionMessage ActuibErrors object, it means the forms authentication success;

(5) the ActionServlet decides to forward the request to which Action according to the mapping information contained in ActionMapping. If the corresponding Action instance does not exist, it first creates this instance and then invokes the execute() method of the Action.

(6) the execute() method of Action returns an ActionForward object, and the ActionServlet forwards the client request to the JSP component pointed by the ActionForward object;

(7)ActionForward object generates a dynamic web page to the JSP component and returns it to the customer;

Why use:

The advent of JSP, Servlet, and JavaBean technologies made it possible to build powerful enterprise applications. But the systems built with these technologies were very messy, so on top of that, we needed a rule, a rule to organize these technologies, and that was the framework, and Struts was born😂😂😂😂.
------