---
title: 'SaaS refactoring (1) : why refactoring?'
date: 2022-03-22
permalink: /posts/2014/08/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

It is a strange phenomenon for saas companies in the market that they are either going to start refactoring or are already on the path of refactoring, seemingly never free from the curse of refactoring.

When I went to the lilac garden, it was mainly to redo the entire system (technically a redo).

1. Why frequent refactoring?

In my opinion, there are three key reasons.

1. Not thinking clearly about the business trajectory

Many companies tend to develop in an extensive way or lack systematic business and product planning at the beginning of their establishment or the beginning of their business lines. What is extensive development, that is to say, the early received a customer demand, simple judgment, the design and development of the ground.

The whole process follows the principle of fast, simple, efficient landing, and into the market.

Being fast means that there is not enough analysis and argumentation in many aspects, and many decisions are accompanied by a lot of subjective decisions.

This approach has both advantages and disadvantages. The advantage is that it conforms to the business. The business needs you to give her a commercially viable product quickly, which can directly solve the existing problems of the customer

The disadvantages are also obvious. First of all, the products you make can only meet the needs of existing customers. In addition, the over-rapid preliminary product design and research process may also drive product managers to be amblysighted and not even think about how the product will develop in the future.

However, as the user needs are constantly upgraded in the near future, and the product does not have sufficient scalability, it will be found that the existing underlying design can no longer meet the constantly developing business changes.

This is like building a house, you originally in order to build a small bungalow, made a shallow foundation suitable for a small bungalow, the results covered, you built a skyscraper, there is no doubt that such a foundation is unable to bear skyscrapers, no doubt can only be knocked down to start over.

Business many times, we do not know the future will become how, experienced PM can think deeper and more accurate judgment, but it is impossible to predict the same, so can't completely avoid reconstruction of for this reason, but we can through the early for judging business for the future development direction, into more scalability design, reduce the likelihood of for this reason, as a result of reconstruction.

For example, a marketing activity involves the selection of commodities, the selection of participants, the setting of participation rules, the setting of prizes, and the setting of delivery channels.

At the beginning, considering going online as soon as possible, it is the most convenient for users and the easiest for development to directly integrate these Settings by creating an activity page, and then create the activity in one step.

However, with the gradual increase of marketing activities, for example, the selection of products needs to support the selection according to the specifications; When selecting participants, support should be provided to screen them according to whether they are members or not. The distribution channel has changed from 1 channel to 3 channels.

Another example is when a product changes some attributes, which results in the creation of a marketing campaign. If the level of membership is increased, the marketing activity must be increased. The drop channel is integrated with the activity rules, and each time a new channel is added, the activity creation has to be rewritten.

At this time, the development began to be crazy. The original scheme brought huge iterative cost with the development of the business. In the early stage, due to the lack of good product planning, the technical scheme almost had no extensibility, and finally, we could only rely on refactoring to completely solve this problem.

2. Product function design

This is the second high frequency case, which is the reconfiguration caused by a functional design problem

For example, we used the concept of department group for the appointment system of clinic, which is not a concept offline, but a concept created by previous products in order to solve a problem.

What's the problem?

Because there is such a scenario in the offline clinic: a doctor needs to see patients in multiple departments, so his time is occupied by multiple departments. That is to say, when user A makes an appointment with department 1 at 8 a.m., then user B cannot make an appointment with department 2 (the same doctor as department 1) at 8 a.m.

Therefore, in order to solve this problem, department 1 and department 2 were packaged and set into a department group. Meanwhile, the open appointment period of department group was set. Then you can make an appointment for the department group.

This was actually a product feature specifically designed to solve the problem of doctors' time conflicts.

Although this problem was generally solved, the introduction of department groups resulted in more complex operation and difficulty in understanding for customers when setting and scheduling, not to mention the use of it (the survey found that only a small number of customers were using it).

Although the requirement exists, the user does not really use it due to the unreasonable design of the function. That is to say, such a pain point is not a good solution. Therefore, it is imperative to refactor this function.

Here's another example:

The product manager hopes that the user can display the corresponding membership price according to the current user membership level when browsing the product list page. As a result, the page finally needs to request multiple interfaces, which makes the page load unusually slow. After several optimizations, there is no obvious improvement. Therefore, the overall transformation of this function can only be carried out, which is actually a refactoring, but the scale and complexity are relatively low, so it is a small refactoring.

3. Technical architecture

Some refactorings are more technical than product-level refactorings.

The original design of the underlying table structure, has been unable to meet and achieve new functions, business forced restructuring

The original business code was too coupled, causing subsequent iterations to cost more and more

There are also a lot of defects in the original code, such as code specification, refactoring is the improvement of the codeThe lack of experience of the original developers and the lack of thorough business analysis led to the unreasonable technical solution and the optimization or replacement of the technical solution

Then there is the need for code evolution brought about by the popularity of new technologies and frameworks

These three types of problems are common to almost every company, and they are not only product problems, but also management problems and people problems.

For saas products, the entire site reconstruction is a large volume, high difficulty, systematic work. It's safe to say that a refactoring can turn into a disaster if you don't think through it, prepare for it, and plan for it.

Why do some companies feel like they have been restructuring all the time? It is very likely that they will not be able to meet new business needs after only 1 year of restructuring. What should they do? Refactoring.

A bad refactoring not only consumes a lot of manpower and material resources, but also misses the time window of the market. In addition, it will lead to countless pot-holes that need to be filled by two or three refactorings. It is not exaggerating to say that many companies are consumed by refactorings.

So as a reconfiguration leader, how do you plan for a complete system reconfiguration?

The preliminary preparation work is indispensable, and a lack of adequate research and analysis is bound to be a failure.

Second, the necessary preparation before the reconstruction

1. Understand the business in depth

I've Shared this several times before.

Understand the industry first, then the market you are working in, then your own business, and finally your products and competitors

Knowing this will help you answer the following questions:

1) the company's development ideas and requirements for this business in the next three years

2) which functions are relatively backward and inadequate compared with competing products

3) from the perspective of building the future competitive advantage of the product, which direction will you go for product iteration

The answer to these questions is to find out whether the main functions and processes of your product will change significantly in the future, and how?

Because it determines the product architecture, it determines the strategy for refactoring.

2. Deep contact with customers

Through front-line interviews with customers, I observed the working conditions of customers, understood the needs of users, as well as their views on the industry and their plans for future development.

You need to answer the following questions:

1) what kind of products will customers need in the next three years with their own development

2) all the problems that customers encounter in the process of using the product, which affect the use and cannot meet the functional requirements

3) customers' recommendation of other competitive products with good features

3. Know some of the underlying logic

1) you need to understand the existing product design logic

2) a general understanding of the underlying design of the technology is required

3) which functions currently have serious product design problems

In the next installment, we'll talk about how to evaluate how much refactoring is needed, and how to design refactoring