---
title: 'The evolution of the AI Era map voice assistant experience'
date: 2020-07-19
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-4/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

People increasingly rely on maps to navigate, check traffic conditions and find points of interest nearby. However, it is a great safety risk for users to use their hands to control or look at the screen while driving. The appearance of voice assistant greatly liberates the user's hand eye during driving and improves driving safety. It not only supports the whole process of voice wake-up, but also can quickly and accurately understand user instructions, put forward effective solutions.

01 Voice assistant concept

Voice assistant means to implant human-computer dialogue programs on hardware devices or APP software to assist users to use the functions of host devices or programs by voice. The complete man-machine dialogue includes the front-end processing of sound signals, the conversion of sound into text for machine processing, and the conversion of text language into sound waves by speech synthesis technology after machine generated language, so as to form a complete man-machine voice interaction.

02 Voice assistant experience trends

With the development of AI technology and hardware upgrade, intelligent devices are endowed with more and more perceptual channels and the ability to output information through various media. Beyond the perception and output layer, the improvement of emotional computing power enables the machine to make a qualitative leap in the cognitive layer. They are far more understanding of their users and far more articulate than they were before. Based on design understanding and practice, we believe that voice assistant experience is showing three trends in terms of interactive channels and interactive objects:

The expression of information services integrates multi-channel experience

Dialogue is close to the natural instinct of people

Ability to interact emotionally

2.1 Expression of information services and integration of multi-channel experience

In addition to voice channels, AI computer vision technology expands the interactive channels such as human faces and empty gestures, while traditional touch control and knob interaction methods have their own advantages in operation precision, information output efficiency and technical cost. Multi-channel fusion can give play to the advantages of different channels and the applicability of scenarios, so as to express information services more naturally and maximize efficiency.

2.1.1 Reconstruction of map voice interaction morphology

The collaborative output of visual information based on the map voice of touch-screen mobile devices can effectively compensate for the intangible, linear and difficult memory defects of voice, and improve the user's understanding of voice interaction experience. In near-field interactions, the touch screen also allows for quick response to messages.

Morphology is an indispensable channel for map speech.

In order to reduce the cognitive cost, the interactive form of map speech adopts the closed dialogue flow commonly used in the industry. This form is also limited by the expansion of map function supported by voice:

(1) Independent closed form and not integrated with the scene will interfere with navigation and affect driving safety.

(2) The original information expression of the map cannot be used, and the results need to be presented separately in the dialogue flow. It will not only affect the expansion of complex requirements such as computing path, but also increase the maintenance cost of design and development.

In order to truly fit the map scene, the voice assistant configuration is reconstructed to the modeless and task accompanying panel: the original information function of the map is used for display, and two reply modes, voice and touch, are supported to improve the efficiency of multiple rounds of dialogue. Different from the closed dialogue flow, the adjoint panel does not skip the current scene, bringing people a more lightweight feeling.

The simplification of speech form weakens the expression of speech state to a certain extent. In order to ensure users' strong perception of speech state, the head of the panel information frame continuously displays the motion effect of small avatar and text prompt in the speech process.

2.1.2 Map voice results VUI and GUI cooperation

In task scenarios such as retrieving locations, users typically focus on efficiency. The design of VUI result talk first takes the goal as the center as the principle, guides the user to carry on the next action when retrieving the single result accurately; In the case of fuzzy retrieval with multiple results, the user is asked to select or recommend the location that is likely to be of most interest and guided to action.

In combination with VUI speech, GUI also makes corresponding collaborative presentation: digital serial number matches VUI inquiry and user selection, while the highlight and label of the recommendation result make VUI recommend location mapping GUI, which enhances the expression efficiency of the result.

2.2 The dialogue is close to people's natural instinct

Continuous conversations can be interrupted at any time, which is in line with the instinctive consciousness of daily communication. However, the voice interaction of most products is still not natural enough: to initiate a conversation, it needs to wake up and then issue instructions in a quiet environment, and it is mainly based on "question and answer". With the emergence of full-duplex voice technology such as no-wake, the prediction and judgment of user instructions based on context information can eliminate the intermediate wake-up process and realize more natural multi-round dialogues.

Before realizing natural conversation, effective cognitive education is the only way to reduce the threshold of using speech.

2.2.1 Innovation of map phonetic cognitive education experience

Due to the "invisibility" of voice messages, there is a defect of weak skill detection, which leads to the frequent neglect of users. At the same time, according to the basic survey of map voice, unaccustomed operation mode is the primary reason for users not to use voice.

Basic map speech research _ reasons for not using speech

In addition to the continuous expansion of speech skills, it is necessary to solve the problem of how to enhance speech perception, enhance user learning and develop usage habits. Entrance touch and scene guidance are indispensable means to enhance speech perception: when users have not formed speech wake-up habit, entrance is indispensable as the signifier of user's touch screen perception function, and it is also an effective supplement for poor speech wake-up effect. In addition, as a natural and efficient interaction mode, voice needs to be strengthened and guided based on the scene of voice superiority to stimulate the power of use.

The skill center is a unique place for speech intensive user education. The skill center of the vast majority of products on the market is to carry on education in the form of instruction manual text, which is still reading in essence. And cognitive research suggests that our brains are designed for language, not reading. Speaking and understanding spoken language are natural human activities, but reading is not. In order to achieve the most authentic learning effect, map voice completes the immersive novice education by means of listening and speaking through the online real environment.

In the user's mental model, the instrumental concept of speech determines that the user will use it only when he has an intention, which inevitably affects the frequency and regularity of practice required for learning and habit formation. Therefore, the map Voice Skills Center puts forward the concept of small growth, completes daily tasks, and helps small growth with rewards. Users are unconsciously learning skills and developing habits.

Tasks are mainly organized in such dimensions as personalization, heat and rank. For example, in the aspect of personalization, users' error-prone instruction tasks are given priority to display, and the expression of instructions is solved through repeated learning.

2.3 Ability to interact emotionally

Language is a symbol of human intelligence, and users will have "empathy" effect towards voice products. Emotional computing enables the product to process relevant data, such as facial expressions, body movements and various psychological parameters, such as heartbeat, pulse and brain wave, through machine learning algorithms such as emotion analysis, and finally calculate the emotional state of the person by combining the information of the external environment. Then from the hardware level, GUI and VUI level to give three-dimensional emotional feedback, to achieve emotional interaction.

At present, map voice is mainly based on navigation and driving environment data to provide services and Suggestions.

2.3.1 Map voice active service

The active map voice service currently includes three main scenarios: security advice, road condition and destination service. For example, provide the nearest rest area when the user is driving for a long time at high speed; When the road section travel crowded, suggest the appropriate route; Convenient parking spots are recommended near your destination. Key points during driving provide valuable proactive services, improve driving safety, and establish trusted emotional connections.

In the future, more sensors will be used to obtain data related to the human body, so that users' emotional state can be accurately grasped and active services conducive to emotional comfort and safe driving can be provided in navigation.

Write in the last

In the ERA of AI, voice assistant will have the opportunity to become the only service subject.

Thanks to the further evolution of voice capabilities, information and services continue to flow around the user rather than the medium. People's demands for nature, emotion and individuality are more prominent than ever before, and voice experience will be more real-time and changeable. On the other side of evolution, user privacy and business competition will affect the realization of this ideal vision.